- Where are they now?
- Geneva.
One's in business, one's a doctor.
Quite successful I think.
- Don't they ever come here?
- They don't know where I am.
When I got out of prison,
I felt if I went to them
it could spoil their
chances in their careers.
So I came here.
I get news of them sometimes
from the man who sells my
carvings in the village.
No.
That's the money I
earned from the carvings.
Almost the same as what I stole.
There were a lot of
people hurt by what I did.
I don't even know who they were.
So I can't repay them,
but I would feel very much better
if I could think of something
worthwhile to do with it.
There, now you know my secret.
I hope it's safe with you.
Good.
And now it's time you
were getting off home.
And don't let me hear anymore
nonsense of giving in.
You may be able to run
away from the village,
but you can't run away from yourself.
Go on.
Off you go now and show
them what you're made of.
- Teacher I must say
that the handwork this year
is really quite exceptional.
I'm sure that all of the
parents who are with us today
must be delighted with this work.
- My sister made that.
(laughing)
- Dani.
- Indeed.
- I think it's best, don't you?
- Well now that you mention
it, yes I think I do.
- You've won the prize
Annette, you've won the prize!
- Teacher Well having had that decision
taken out of my hands, we
come to the boy's entries.
Yet again the quality is so
good, but I have to confess
there is one that stands
out above them all.
The prize this year for the best boy
really must go to Bernard Pile.
(clapping)
(peaceful music)
(cat meows)
- What are you playing?
- Go away!
(melancholy music)
I'm playing with my fairy animals.
But Annette said I'm not to talk to you.
- I won't hurt you.
And I was very sorry about your leg.
That's why I made the animals for you.
- You didn't make them, I
found them behind the woodpile.
- Annette Dani, supper's ready.
Dani!
- Coming!
(peaceful music)
Come Klaus.
- Come on, hurry up.
- It's getting cold.
- Annette.
Lucien said he made my fairy
animals, but he didn't did he?
- Dani I've told you
not to talk to Lucien.
He'll only hurt you again.
- Oh Annette that's not kind.
- But I only talked to
him a teeny weeny bit,
anyway he didn't make them did he?
- You found them in the
woodpile didn't you?
So how could he have done?
Don't be so silly.
- Well he said he did.
But I think the fairies
made them, don't you?
- Oh do be quiet Dani,
and eat up your soup.
- Annette.
- Where's Annette going?
- I think her conscience is troubling her.
- What's that?
- It's a little thing inside us
that keeps getting in the way.
- Oh.
- Am I to understand those little animals
really were from Lucien?
Oh Annette I don't know what's
going on between you two,
but do you really think it's worth it?
Don't you see what it's
doing to you my dear?
You've cut of Lucien and God
and now you're beginning to
hurt little Dani as well.
(melancholy music)
Think about it my dear, think very hard.
(suspenseful music)
(wind howling)
(screams)
(sobbing)
(panting)
Monsieur Belldo!
(door knocking)
Monsieur Belldo.
(door rattling)
(sobbing)
Dear Lord.
Dear Lord Jesus.
(sobbing)
Why won't you let me in?
(melancholy music)
Please Lord, please help me.
Please, please help me.
Please, please.
(ski's scraping)
(suspenseful music)
Help!
Over here!
I've hurt myself.
I can't get out of here.
(suspenseful music)
Oh no.
- Can't you walk at all?
(groans)
Look, if you wait here
it'd be best if I go home,
get the sledge for you.
Don't worry, I'll be as quick as I can.
- Won't you be cold?
(peaceful music)
- Lucien I won't be long.
- Annette Voiceover Oh
why did it have to be him?
Why?
Lord Jesus.
- Dear Lord Jesus,
thank you for sending Lucien to help me.
I'm sorry I've been shutting
you out all these months
'cause I wanted to hate
him, I wanted to punish him.
I'm sorry.
I really am.
(suspenseful music)
(wood cracking)
- Annette Voiceover I
can't, please don't make me.
Please, no.
No no, please.
(suspenseful music)
- Do I have to tell him?
- Come on.
- No, wait.
I want to tell you
something before we go home.
You know that time your
horse fell off the balcony?
Well it was me.
I did it on purpose
because I didn't want
you to win the prize.
I'm sorry.
- Come on.
(peaceful music)
(footsteps clicking)
- Annette.
Oh my dear what has happened to you?
Your father has just this
minute gone out looking for you.
- Yes, he's seen us.
He's just getting some bandages.
- Lucien, come in.
You're very welcome.
Come.
Sit down both of you.
I'll go and get you some good hot soup.
Annette, I've tried not to interfere
but isn't it time you forgave Lucien?
- I have.
- And have you told him?
- Yes, today in the mountains.
- And what brought this about?
- Come on you, lets have you on the sofa.
Gently, there we are.
Alright, let's have a look at it.
(groaning)
Where Annette?
- Ow!
- Monsieur Burnier Is it here?
- Yes.
- Well, I just wanted to get out
and think about what was
said at church last night.
You know, about the innkeeper
not letting Mary and Joesph in
and people who still don't let Jesus in.
And, ow!
Ow.
Then I fell up by the Belldo's house
and there was nobody there,
but I still felt like they
weren't letting me in on purpose.
I thought God must feel
a bit like that really.
It was awful.
And then Lucien arrived of all people
and I just couldn't stand it anymore.
And so, I had to tell him.
- Tell him what?
- It's a secret.
- Oh.
- I'll tell you one day.
(peaceful music)
- Come in, come in.
Now, what can I do for you?
(peaceful music)
- Lucien made them.
- These are really exceptionally good.
They're beautiful.
I had no idea that Lucien.
Why did he not enter for the competition?
- He did.
That's what I've come to tell you about.
He made a little wooden horse,
but I broke it because I
was so angry about Dani.
But I'm sorry now and I wondered
if he could have a prize
now that you know about it.
- But I haven't got another
prize, there were only two.
One was given to Bernard
and the other to you.
- Well than he ought to
have Bernard's prize,
his were much better.
- Oh no, we couldn't do that.
After all, Bernard won quite fairly.
We couldn't take his prize away.
If you really want Lucien to have a prize
then I think you should give him yours.
After all it was your fault wasn't it?
Hmm?
It seems we have a late entry
for the handwork competition.
Indeed, I must say I was
as surprised as you are.
Normally I would not
consider such a late entry.
However, during the holidays
I came across such a
good piece of woodcarving
that I've decided to award
another prize for it.
Lucien, would you like to
come up and receive it?
- Thank you.
- Well done, you deserve it.
- Annette it's like yours.
- Is it?
(peaceful music)
I think you ought to
keep it, it's your book.
- No, it's yours now.
The teacher said so.
You've got to keep it.
- Well I tell you what,
why don't I have it this month
and you have it the next?
- And we'll change every month, all right.
(peaceful music)
Dani, what are you doing here?
- Granny said I could come here,
'cause dinner's ready and I've had mine.
- You shouldn't have come so far.
- I thought you'd be back sooner.
- Come on.
- Oh, my leg hurts.
- Shall I carry him?
- Would you like that?
- Woo hoo!
(peaceful music)
- What are you thinking?
- Dani.
- Don't you think it's time
you put all that behind you?
- It was going so well, and then.
Isn't there anything we can do for him?
- No, I don't think we can.
- Marie Oh, I thought I'd never make it.
- Come on, you must be frozen.
What's this?
- Money I think.
- What's it for?
- Got it as a tip.
- Really?
- Monsieur Givert, he's a
doctor from down by the lake.
Quite famous I believe.
- Isn't that nice of him?
- Madam was telling me he's got a clinic.
People come from all over the world,
he's some sort of bone specialist
Honestly he was ever so nice.
- Can he mend broken legs?
- I would think so, yes.
Oh, Lucien, you're not still
thinking about Dani are you?
- Could he do it?
- I suppose so but have no
idea how much it would cost?
- No.
- Nor have I.
But it'll be far more than
the Burniers could afford.
- Forget about Dani, Lucien.
It's over with.
- But would he just come
and have a look at Dani?
- What good will that do?
- I just thought that we could find out
if anything could be done.
- He leaves tomorrow early.
- We could go now.
- Marie How?
- On the train.
- It's too late.
- Not if we hurry.
- Lucien don't be silly.
(suspenseful music)
(wind howling)
- Who's that?
My boy what brings you
here in this weather?
(coughing)
Are you all right?
- You know you once said
you were saving your money
to give to something worthwhile.
- Yes.
- Well, I think I've found
someone who really needs it.
If you will give me your money,
I think little Dani Burnier's
leg might be made better.
- How could that be?
- There's a doctor at the
hotel where my sister works
who can mend broken bones.
My sister said he'd want a lot of money.
I'm going over the pass now
to ask him to come and
have a look at Dani.
- You're going over the
pass, in this weather?
My boy you must be mad.
You couldn't cross the
pass in this weather.
- I think I could on my skis,
the fresh snow won't be
too deep yet if I hurry.
But it's no good going
unless I've got the money.
- I would give the money
if I was sure of the man,
but what do we know of him?
Suppose he should cheat us.
- My sister said he's a very famous man.
Monsieur Givert I think.
- Monsieur Givert?
Do you know anymore about him?
- He's got a clinic down by the lake
people come to him from
all over the world.
- Take it all and give
it to Monsieur Givert
and tell him it is the payment of a debt.
- Thank you very much.
- Now you won't forget
the message will you?
- No, I'll say it's a payment of a debt.
- And don't tell him about me.
- No?
- Nor my name.
- No, I don't know your name.
- Nor where I live.
- No I'll just say it's
a payment of a debt.
Bye bye.
- Goodbye and be careful, be careful.
(ski's scraping)
(wind howling)